Killer Ape
Killer Ape
The Killer Ape is a giant-sized variant with light-blue fur, and is a boss in Golden Sun. Statistically, this monster has 1000 HP, 45 PP, 156 Attack, 49 Defense, 94 Agility, and 26 Luck. In terms of resistance, it has a Jupiter Resistance rating of 127, Venus and Mercury Resistance ratings of 72, and a Mars Resistance rating of 25, and in regards to its abilities it uses its available Venus-based attacks with a power rating of 100 and its available Jupiter and Mercury-based attacks with a power rating of 80 each.

The Killer Ape uses these battle commands:

Ransack: Used 53 out of 256 times, this is a Monster Skill where the monster charges towards a targeted Adept and unleashes 5 red glowing claw swipes in rapid, brutal succession, dealing a Venus-based attack equal to its normal physical attack with an additional 35 damage points.
Bind: Used 52 out of 256 times, this is a Psynergy spell that displays a holographic symbol onto a targeted Adept, attempting to Seal that Adept's Psynergy capabilities. It consumes 4 of its user's PP.
War Cry: Used 47 out of 256 times, this is a Monster Skill that launches rings of light blue energy through a targeted Adept, dealing a Jupiter-based attack with a power rating of 45 and with a chance to Paralyze that Adept for 1 turn.
Douse: Used 41 out of 256 times, this is a Psynergy spell that drops several orbs of water onto the Adepts, dealing a Mercury-based attack with a power rating of 25 and a range of 3. It consumes 5 of its user's PP. This is mainly a weak "joke" attack, possibly meant to reflect that the monster is in possession of the Douse Drop, which you will get at the end of the battle.
Debilitate: Used 35 out of 256 times, this is a Psynergy spell that targets up to 3 Adepts, for each one attempting to temporarily lower that Adept's current Defense rating by 12.5%. It consumes 6 of its user's PP.
Attack: Used 28 out of 256 times, this is this monster's standard physical attack.
Felling the Killer Ape yields 460 Experience Points and 1500 Coins, and the boss is guaranteed to drop the Douse Drop, a Utility Psynergy item that always ensures the party from then on can cast Douse on the field. If the player manages to land the finishing blow on the Boss an offensive Mars Djinni (i.e. Fever), its rewards increase to 598 EXP and 1950 Coins. In Golden Sun it is a mandatory battle that automatically occurs at the bottom exit of the dungeon-style Mogall Forest location - as you approach a large empty tree stump, a smaller green ape is seen jumping out of it, essentially warning the player that now would be a good time to save. Then as you try to pass the stump, the Killer Ape jumps out and begins the boss fight.

Since this boss has "only" 1000 HP (Saturos, an earlier boss, has 1200 HP), you could probably win with your typical battlefield conduct over a period of time. The most Djinn of specific elements you can have at this point are 3 Venus and 3 Jupiter Djinn, so you could summon Cybele and Procne once each in the battle. However, the Killer Ape is most weak to Mars (and sharply so), so having Garet use Heat Wave or unleash Mars Djinni Fever is a pretty good attack, and the 2-Mars Djinni summon Kirin does about as much damage as the other two summons.